# Entanglement Cooling

This repository contains code to simulate the entanglement and disentanglement of random product quantum states using random quantum circuits. I worked on this project while attending the lecture [Computational Methods in Many-Body Physics](https://campus.tum.de/tumonline/ee/ui/ca2/app/desktop/#/slc.tm.cp/student/courses/950732970?$scrollTo=toc_overview) at Technical University of Munich in the summer term of 2024.

## File contents

* `diagnosis.ipynb`: Trying very hard to find out what specifically is wrong with my MPS implementation
* `plotting.ipynb`: Plotting routines
* `simulator_MPS`: Simulating thermalization of MPS
* `simulator_statevec`: Simulating thermalization of statevector
* `therm_test.ipynb`: Testing the thermalization functions from `lib/heating_cooling.py`

## Open questions

* Take a look at the plots generated by `plot_max_heat`: It seems like the states do not reach maximum entanglement entropy with the heating procedure I used. The maximum value of $S$ is, of course, $\max S=\log_2d$, where $d$ is the dimension of the respective Hilbert space. For multiple qubits and a bipartition $2^N\mapsto 2^{N_A}\otimes 2^{N-N_A}$, I would expect the largest entropy to belong to a splitting of the system in two equal halves, meaning $N_A=N/2$ and thus $\max S = \log_22^{N_A}=N/2$. These are the horizontal lines in the plots of `plot_max_heat`, but the states do not reach this value of entanglement. Why is that?
* Closer investigation of the rates at which entanglement is created and destroyed during heating and cooling, respectively. Apparently $\text{iSWAP}$ generates entabglement slightly slower during heating (see plots)? The curves of mean entanglement entropy generated duing cooling match in shape, disentanglement begins later for larger systems, however - this is particularly strange to me.
* Why are $\text{iSWAP}$-sets unable to fully remove the entanglement in the state?
* Can a $\text{iSWAP}$-set disentangle a $\text{CNOT}$-state, and vice versa? Stated more broadly: Is the ability to be disentangled a property of the state, or of the gate set? Stating the question this way demands that the answer is yes; the whole result is that the only decisive factor is whether the gate set is universal or not. We have seen however that disentangling with $\text{iSWAP}$-sets cannot decrease entanglement back to zero, so clearly the specific gate set does still make a difference.
